initial draft of cloud_cli guide (#6235)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/guides/qs-cloud-cli.md

1. Select **Deploy >> Runs** to find the created jobs. For the one job, click on the job and click **run**.

1. Select **Explore** from the navigation and choose XX. Now you can visualize your dbt Mesh. Click into each project to see project level lineage.

You've now successfully run your project in deployment environments so you can use cross project ref and deferral later in the workshop. 

## Configure dbt Cloud CLI

Now we'll clone the project repository and configure dbt Cloud CLI to connect to your sandbox.

### Clone the repo

1. Navigate to a folder on your computer to clone the repository.

1. In your terminal, run the following command to clone the downstream (analytics) project:

    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/dbt-labs/c24-workshops-analytics.git
    ```

### Install Cloud CLI

1. In dbt Cloud, select Platform Analytics and choose **Develop >> Configure Cloud CLI**.

1. Based on your current local setup, use the following guidance to determine your installation approach:

    a. Check if you have dbt in your PATH by running `dbt --version`

    b. If you don't have dbt in your PATH, we recommend the macOS or Windows installation method.

>     c. If you do have dbt in your PATH (global environment) we recommend i) uninstalling dbt globally and ii) installing dbt Cloud CLI with a python virtual environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    c. If you do have dbt in your PATH (global environment) we recommend i) uninstalling dbt globally and ii) installing dbt Cloud CLI with a Python virtual environment.
```

>     d. If you have dbt in a virtual environment, install dbt Cloud CLI with a separate python virtual environment. Be sure to activate it with `source <path to env>/bin/activate`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    d. If you have dbt in a virtual environment, install dbt Cloud CLI with a separate Python virtual environment. Be sure to activate it with `source <path to env>/bin/activate`.
```

1. Download the CLI configuration file from the dbt Cloud UI. Save it in your `.dbt` folder.

1. Navigate to the dbt project folder that you cloned earlier and open the `dbt_project.yml` file with your `project_id`.

### Confirm the installation

Run `dbt compile` to verify your installation.

There you go! You've installed the dbt Cloud CLI! Let's dive in!

> ### Additional Resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Additional resources
```

> Consult the docs below if you run into specific blocker related to dbt Cloud CLI installation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consult the following docs if you run into problems when trying to install the dbt Cloud CLI:
```

- [Install dbt Cloud CLI](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation)
- [Configure and use dbt Cloud CLI](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/cloud/configure-cloud-cli)

## Leverage dbt Cloud CLI

Let's run a few commands together to get comfortable with the dbt Cloud CLI:
* `dbt debug` &mdash; Displays your connection details and information
* `dbt compile --select stg_campaigns` &mdash; Compiles your dbt project
* `dbt run --select stg_campaigns` &mdash; Materialized your dbt models
* `dbt run --select stg_campaigns` &mdash; Preview the results of a model
* `dbt test --select stg_campaigns` &mdash; Execute tests against your materialized models

Now let's dive into some more advanced components of dbt Cloud CLI.

### Deferral

> Deferral is a powerful functionality that lets users leverage upstream assets that exist outside of a user's personal development environment. As a result user's can speed up their development workflows and save on warehouse compute. Let's run a few commands using deferral:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deferral is a powerful functionality, allowing you to leverage upstream assets that exist outside of your personal development environment. As a result, you can speed up your development workflows and save on warehouse compute costs. Let's run a few commands using deferral:
```

    ```

1. Navigate to dbt Cloud Explorer and find a public model. Let's use the `fct_order_items` model.
1. Create a new model called `agg_orders` in your project with the following code:

    ```sql
    with orders as (
    
        select * from {{ ref('platform', 'fct_order_items') }}

    ),

    final as (
    
        select
            customer_key as customer_id,
            is_return as return_status,
            count(*) as count_orders

        from
            orders
        group by
            customer_key,
            is_return
    )

    select * from final
    ```

### Linting and fixing SQL files

With SQLFluff built in, you can check your code against a style guide and automatically make fixes.

1. Run the SQLFluff command `lint`:

    ```shell
    dbt sqlfluff lint models/staging/campaigns/stg_campaigns.sql --dialect snowflake
    ```

    This identifies tweaks to make in the `stg_campaigns` model.
2. Run the SQLFluff command `fix`:

    ```shell
    dbt sqlfluff fix models/staging/campaigns/stg_campaigns.sql --dialect snowflake
    ```

    This attempts to directly make fixes in the `stg_campaigns` model.

### Change branches

> You can quickly change branches without fully pushing to your git provider (such as GitHub):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can quickly change branches without fully pushing to your Git provider (such as GitHub):
```
